readme.asciidoc, before:

Elasto
======

Summary
-------

Elasto is a lightweight library and client utility for managing and
manipulating cloud storage objects via REST protocols.
Microsoft Azure and Amazon S3 cloud storage protocols are supported.


Building
--------

Elasto uses the Waf build framework.

libevent, libexpat and openssl (libcrypto) development libraries are
required for building.

To compile the library and client, run the following from the top of the
Elasto source tree:

-----------------------------------------------------
> ./waf configure
> ./waf build
-----------------------------------------------------


Installing
----------

After building, Elasto can be installed by running:

-----------------------------------------------------
> ./waf install
-----------------------------------------------------

Prebuilt packages for GNU/Linux distributions are available via the
Elasto project website.


Running (short version)
-----------------------

Azure
~~~~~
1. Create an Azure account

2. Download the PublishSettings file for the account: +
   https://manage.windowsazure.com/publishsettings/index

3. Start the Elasto client, connecting to the *Azure Blob Service*:

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -s Azure_PublishSettings_File
-----------------------------------------------------


Amazon S3
~~~~~~~~~
1. Create Amazon S3 account

2. Create an IAM group with S3 access, assign a new user to the group: +
   https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#home

3. Download the user's access key (credentials.csv) file

4. Start the Elasto client:

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -k iam_creds_file
-----------------------------------------------------


Running (not so short version)
------------------------------

Azure
~~~~~
First step is to create an Azure account at https://azure.microsoft.com.

Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Elasto client can authenticate with Azure using one of two
credentials parameters:

*Access Key*::
  An Access Key is associated with a specific storage
  account, and only allows access to Blob and File Service
  objects nested within the corresponding account. E.g.

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -K access_key
-----------------------------------------------------

*PublishSettings*::
  A PublishSettings file can be used to create and manipulate
  storage accounts, as well as underlying Blob and File Service
  objects. It can be downloaded at
  https://manage.windowsazure.com/publishsettings/index. +
  The file contains security sensitive information, so should be
  kept private.

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -s PublishSettings_path
-----------------------------------------------------

Service URI
^^^^^^^^^^^
Two storage services can be used with Azure:

*Azure Blob Service* (default)::
-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -u abb:// ...
-----------------------------------------------------

*Azure File Service*::
-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -u afs:// ...
-----------------------------------------------------


Amazon S3
~~~~~~~~~
Create an Amazon S3 account at https://aws.amazon.com/s3/.

Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Create an IAM group with S3 access, assign a new user to the group: +
https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#home
-> Create a New Group of Users

The IAM user creation wizard allows for the download of access
credentials. Select "Generate an access key for each User", and
subsequently "Download Credentials".

Commands can then be issued by running the elasto_cli client binary
with the -k argument. E.g.

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -k iam_creds_file <command>
-----------------------------------------------------


Alternatives
------------

[horizontal]
Deltacloud::	An API that abstracts differences between clouds.
		http://deltacloud.apache.org/

libs3::		A C Library API for Amazon S3.
		https://github.com/bji/libs3

fog::		Ruby cloud services library.
		http://fog.io/

rest-client-c::	Object-oriented REST client in C.
		https://github.com/emcvipr/rest-client-c

atmos-c::	C library for EMC Atmos cloud storage.
		https://github.com/emcvipr/atmos-client-c

Droplet::	Cloud storage client library
		https://github.com/scality/Droplet

Commit message:

readme: combine build and installation steps
Emphasise availability of pre-built packages.

Signed-off-by: David Disseldorp <ddiss@suse.de>

readme.asciidoc, after:

Elasto
======

Summary
-------

Elasto is a lightweight library and client utility for managing and
manipulating cloud storage objects via REST protocols.
Microsoft Azure and Amazon S3 cloud storage protocols are supported.


Installation
------------

Prebuilt packages for GNU/Linux distributions are available for download
from the Elasto project website: http://elastocloud.org/. Alternatively,
Elasto can be built from source using the Waf build framework.

libevent, libexpat and openssl (libcrypto) development libraries are
required for building.

To compile the library and client, run the following from the top of the
source tree:

-----------------------------------------------------
> ./waf configure
> ./waf build
-----------------------------------------------------

After building, Elasto can be installed by running:

-----------------------------------------------------
> ./waf install
-----------------------------------------------------


Running (short version)
-----------------------

Azure
~~~~~
1. Create an Azure account

2. Download the PublishSettings file for the account: +
   https://manage.windowsazure.com/publishsettings/index

3. Start the Elasto client, connecting to the *Azure Blob Service*:

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -s Azure_PublishSettings_File
-----------------------------------------------------


Amazon S3
~~~~~~~~~
1. Create Amazon S3 account

2. Create an IAM group with S3 access, assign a new user to the group: +
   https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#home

3. Download the user's access key (credentials.csv) file

4. Start the Elasto client:

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -k iam_creds_file
-----------------------------------------------------


Running (not so short version)
------------------------------

Azure
~~~~~
First step is to create an Azure account at https://azure.microsoft.com.

Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Elasto client can authenticate with Azure using one of two
credentials parameters:

*Access Key*::
  An Access Key is associated with a specific storage
  account, and only allows access to Blob and File Service
  objects nested within the corresponding account. E.g.

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -K access_key
-----------------------------------------------------

*PublishSettings*::
  A PublishSettings file can be used to create and manipulate
  storage accounts, as well as underlying Blob and File Service
  objects. It can be downloaded at
  https://manage.windowsazure.com/publishsettings/index. +
  The file contains security sensitive information, so should be
  kept private.

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -s PublishSettings_path
-----------------------------------------------------

Service URI
^^^^^^^^^^^
Two storage services can be used with Azure:

*Azure Blob Service* (default)::
-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -u abb:// ...
-----------------------------------------------------

*Azure File Service*::
-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -u afs:// ...
-----------------------------------------------------


Amazon S3
~~~~~~~~~
Create an Amazon S3 account at https://aws.amazon.com/s3/.

Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Create an IAM group with S3 access, assign a new user to the group: +
https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home#home
-> Create a New Group of Users

The IAM user creation wizard allows for the download of access
credentials. Select "Generate an access key for each User", and
subsequently "Download Credentials".

Commands can then be issued by running the elasto_cli client binary
with the -k argument. E.g.

-----------------------------------------------------
> elasto_cli -k iam_creds_file <command>
-----------------------------------------------------


Alternatives
------------

[horizontal]
Deltacloud::	An API that abstracts differences between clouds.
		http://deltacloud.apache.org/

libs3::		A C Library API for Amazon S3.
		https://github.com/bji/libs3

fog::		Ruby cloud services library.
		http://fog.io/

rest-client-c::	Object-oriented REST client in C.
		https://github.com/emcvipr/rest-client-c

atmos-c::	C library for EMC Atmos cloud storage.
		https://github.com/emcvipr/atmos-client-c

Droplet::	Cloud storage client library
		https://github.com/scality/Droplet
