doc/elasto_cli.asciidoc, before:

ELASTO(1)
=========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
elasto - Lightweight Cloud Storage Client Utility


SYNOPSIS
--------
*elasto* ['-?'] ['-s Azure publish settings file'] ['-K Azure access key']
	 ['-k Amazon IAM credentials file'] ['-d log level'] ['-i']
	 ['-h CLI history file'] ['-u REST Server URI'] ['-- command']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
elasto is a command line utility for the manipulation of cloud storage
objects. It supports the Amazon S3 and Azure Blob/File Service RESTful
protocols.


OPTIONS
-------
*-?*::
	Print help message and exit.

*-s* 'Azure publish settings file'::
	Azure subscription credentials. Either a 'publish settings file' or an
	'account access key' must be provided for Azure cloud access.

*-K* 'Azure account access key'::
	Azure credentials tied to a specific account. Using an access key will
	only permit access to Blob and File Service objects nested within the
	corresponding account.

*-k* 'Amazon IAM credentials file'::
	Amazon IAM credentials.csv file, which includes the account key ID and
	secret access key. Must be provided for Amazon S3 cloud access.

*-d* 'log level'::
	Print debugging information.

*-i*::
	Use *insecure* HTTP instead of HTTPS where possible, for improved
	performance.

*-h* 'CLI history file'::
	Specify a file to use as storage for Elasto CLI command history, rather
	than the default ~/.elasto_history path.

*-u* 'REST server URI'::
	Specify a protocol and server to use for the connection, instead of
	deriving it from the credentials file. Currently only the protocol in
	the URI is processed. Supported values are:
[width="15%"]
|===========================================
|*abb://* | Azure Blob Service (Block Blobs)
|*apb://* | Azure Blob Service (Page Blobs)
|*afs://* | Azure File Service
|*s3://*  | Amazon S3
|===========================================

'command'::
	Client command to execute, refer to list below. If no command is
	present, then the Elasto command line prompt will be entered.


AZURE BLOB SERVICE COMMANDS
---------------------------
*ls* '[account[/container[/blob]]]'::
	When run without arguments, lists all accounts associated with the given
	Azure subscription. Otherwise lists all entities under the provided
	account, container, or blob.

*put* '<local path> <account/container/blob>'::
	Uploads the file at 'local path' to 'blob' at the provided remote path.

*get* '<account/container/blob>' '<local path>'::
	Downloads 'blob', storing it as a file at 'local path'.

*del* '<account>[/container[/blob]]'::
	Deletes the given blob, container, or account.  The operation is
	recursive, e.g. on container deletion, any nested blobs are also
	removed.

*cp* '<src account/src container/src blob>' '<dest account/dest container/dest blob>'::
	Copies the given 'src blob' to 'dest blob'.  The copy is performed
	remotely, such that blob data does not travel between client and cloud.

*create* '[-L location] <account>'::
	Creates an Azure account with the provided attributes. The account name
	must be unique within Azures namespace. If specified, location must
	match one of Azure's datacenter location names.

*create* '<account/container>'::
	Creates the given container.


AZURE FILE SERVICE COMMANDS
---------------------------
*ls* '[account[/share[/directory/path]]]'::
	When run without arguments, lists all accounts associated with the given
	Azure subscription. Otherwise lists all entities under the provided
	'account', 'share', or 'directory'.

*put* '<local path>' '<account/share[/directory/path]/file>'::
	Uploads the file at 'local path' to the provided remote path.

*get* '<account/share/[/directory/path]/file>' '<local path>'::
	Downloads 'blob', storing it as a file at 'local path'.

*del* '<account>[/share[/directory/path/file]]'::
	Deletes the given 'file', 'directory', 'share', or 'account'. The
	operation is recursive, e.g. on share deletion, any nested files or
	directories are also removed.

*cp* '<src account/src share[/directory]/src file>' '<dest account/dest share[/directory]/dest file>'::
	Copies the given 'src file' to 'dest file'. The copy is performed
	remotely.

*create* '[-L location]' '<account>'::
	Creates an Azure account with the provided attributes. The account name
	must be unique within Azures namespace. If specified, 'location' must
	match one of Azure's datacenter location names.

*create* '<account/share[/directory/path]>'::
	Creates the given 'share' or 'directory path'.


AMAZON S3 COMMANDS
------------------
*ls* '[bucket]'::
	When run without arguments, lists all buckets associated with the given
	S3 account. Otherwise lists all objects under the given 'bucket'.

*put* '<local path>' '<bucket/object>'::
	Uploads the file at 'local path' to 'object' at the provided remote
	path.

*get* '<bucket/object>' '<local path>'::
	Downloads 'object', storing it as a file at 'local path'.

*del* '<bucket>[/object]'::
	Deletes the given 'object' or 'bucket'. The operation is recursive.

*cp* '<src bucket/src object>' '<dest bucket/dest object>'::
	Copies the given 'src object' to 'dest object'. The copy is performed
	remotely, such that object data does not travel between client and
	cloud.

*create* '[-L location]' '<bucket>'::
	Creates the given bucket.


RESOURCES
---------
*Main website*:: http://elastocloud.org/
*Bug/feature tracker*:: https://github.com/elastocloud/elasto/issues
*Source code*:: https://github.com/elastocloud/elasto


AUTHOR
------
The Elasto project was created by David Disseldorp.

Commit message:

doc: add stat command and improve URI usage text
Signed-off-by: David Disseldorp <ddiss@suse.de>

doc/elasto_cli.asciidoc, after:

ELASTO(1)
=========
:doctype: manpage


NAME
----
elasto - Lightweight Cloud Storage Client Utility


SYNOPSIS
--------
*elasto* ['-?'] ['-s Azure publish settings file'] ['-K Azure access key']
	 ['-k Amazon IAM credentials file'] ['-d log level'] ['-i']
	 ['-h CLI history file'] ['-u REST Server URI'] ['-- command']


DESCRIPTION
-----------
elasto is a command line utility for the manipulation of cloud storage
objects. It supports the Amazon S3 and Azure Blob/File Service RESTful
protocols.


OPTIONS
-------
*-?*::
	Print help message and exit.

*-s* 'Azure publish settings file'::
	Azure subscription credentials. Either a 'publish settings file' or an
	'account access key' must be provided for Azure cloud access.

*-K* 'Azure account access key'::
	Azure credentials tied to a specific account. Using an access key will
	only permit access to Blob and File Service objects nested within the
	corresponding account.

*-k* 'Amazon IAM credentials file'::
	Amazon IAM credentials.csv file, which includes the account key ID and
	secret access key. Must be provided for Amazon S3 cloud access.

*-d* 'log level'::
	Print debugging information.

*-i*::
	Use *insecure* HTTP instead of HTTPS where possible, for improved
	performance.

*-h* 'CLI history file'::
	Specify a file to use as storage for Elasto CLI command history, rather
	than the default ~/.elasto_history path.

*-u* 'REST server URI <scheme>://[host[:port]]'::
	Specify a protocol and server to use for the connection, instead of
	deriving it from the credentials file. The optional 'host' and 'port'
	portion of the URI can be used to specify a custom server instead of
	the cloud provider's default endpoint. Supported 'scheme' values are:
[width="15%"]
|===========================================
|*abb://* | Azure Blob Service (Block Blobs)
|*apb://* | Azure Blob Service (Page Blobs)
|*afs://* | Azure File Service
|*s3://*  | Amazon S3
|===========================================

'command'::
	Client command to execute, refer to list below. If no command is
	present, then the Elasto command line prompt will be entered.


AZURE BLOB SERVICE COMMANDS
---------------------------
*ls* '[account[/container[/blob]]]'::
	When run without arguments, lists all accounts associated with the given
	Azure subscription. Otherwise lists all entities under the provided
	account, container, or blob.

*put* '<local path> <account/container/blob>'::
	Uploads the file at 'local path' to 'blob' at the provided remote path.

*get* '<account/container/blob>' '<local path>'::
	Downloads 'blob', storing it as a file at 'local path'.

*del* '<account>[/container[/blob]]'::
	Deletes the given blob, container, or account.  The operation is
	recursive, e.g. on container deletion, any nested blobs are also
	removed.

*cp* '<src account/src container/src blob>' '<dest account/dest container/dest blob>'::
	Copies the given 'src blob' to 'dest blob'.  The copy is performed
	remotely, such that blob data does not travel between client and cloud.

*create* '[-L location] <account>'::
	Creates an Azure account with the provided attributes. The account name
	must be unique within Azures namespace. If specified, location must
	match one of Azure's datacenter location names.

*create* '<account/container>'::
	Creates the given container.

*stat* 'account[/container[/blob]]'::
	Dump size and type details for a given 'account', 'container' or 'blob'.


AZURE FILE SERVICE COMMANDS
---------------------------
*ls* '[account[/share[/directory/path]]]'::
	When run without arguments, lists all accounts associated with the given
	Azure subscription. Otherwise lists all entities under the provided
	'account', 'share', or 'directory'.

*put* '<local path>' '<account/share[/directory/path]/file>'::
	Uploads the file at 'local path' to the provided remote path.

*get* '<account/share/[/directory/path]/file>' '<local path>'::
	Downloads 'blob', storing it as a file at 'local path'.

*del* '<account>[/share[/directory/path/file]]'::
	Deletes the given 'file', 'directory', 'share', or 'account'. The
	operation is recursive, e.g. on share deletion, any nested files or
	directories are also removed.

*cp* '<src account/src share[/directory]/src file>' '<dest account/dest share[/directory]/dest file>'::
	Copies the given 'src file' to 'dest file'. The copy is performed
	remotely.

*create* '[-L location]' '<account>'::
	Creates an Azure account with the provided attributes. The account name
	must be unique within Azures namespace. If specified, 'location' must
	match one of Azure's datacenter location names.

*create* '<account/share[/directory/path]>'::
	Creates the given 'share' or 'directory path'.

*stat* 'account[/share[/path]]'::
	Dump size and type details for a given 'account', 'share' or 'path'.


AMAZON S3 COMMANDS
------------------
*ls* '[bucket]'::
	When run without arguments, lists all buckets associated with the given
	S3 account. Otherwise lists all objects under the given 'bucket'.

*put* '<local path>' '<bucket/object>'::
	Uploads the file at 'local path' to 'object' at the provided remote
	path.

*get* '<bucket/object>' '<local path>'::
	Downloads 'object', storing it as a file at 'local path'.

*del* '<bucket>[/object]'::
	Deletes the given 'object' or 'bucket'. The operation is recursive.

*cp* '<src bucket/src object>' '<dest bucket/dest object>'::
	Copies the given 'src object' to 'dest object'. The copy is performed
	remotely, such that object data does not travel between client and
	cloud.

*create* '[-L location]' '<bucket>'::
	Creates the given bucket.

*stat* 'bucket[/object]'::
	Dump size and type details for a given 'bucket' or 'object'.


RESOURCES
---------
*Main website*:: http://elastocloud.org/
*Bug/feature tracker*:: https://github.com/elastocloud/elasto/issues
*Source code*:: https://github.com/elastocloud/elasto


AUTHOR
------
The Elasto project was created by David Disseldorp.
